I have driven let's all a very interesting problem, which is how ultrabook as you can guess that it
has so many lakes and many to this lakes and the ratio of the lakes to this lake is one of the best
on the record.
This is a very interesting problem.
And this problem, milieus are dynamic programming, of course, but it's a it's actually a very easy
problem.
But what I want I want I will actually confuse you all in this problem.
I want to confuse you in this problem, because I want you to understand two different ways of solving
this.
So therefore, I'll slightly confuse you.
But then we'll come back and see why is that working on.
So let's read the problem first.
You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along the street.
Each house has a certain amount of money stashed.
These are there's a money in the houses.
The only constant stopping you from the robbing each of them is that at the end, houses have security
system connected and it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into
the same night.
Basically simple.
You cannot break in and break into two decent houses in the same at the same time.
So if you are picking, i.e. you cannot bring into a policeman and you cannot break into A-minus for
not do it the same basically in D do that in them sort of presenting the amount of money of each house
return the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight without alerting the police.
They begin scene one, two, three, four.
We cannot take two or three continuously, but we can take this one and this trigger continuously.
Also, we can take this one and this one also.
Right.
Because they are not continuous.
And we can take this to.
And this one.
Correct.
So.
Right.
But this was example one.
And similarly, you can see the best answer this one, bless you, which is full.
The second one is 27931.
So we cannot take seven and nine continuously.
We cannot take nine and three continuously, but we can take two nine.
And one verdict, that's the best answer you need.
So I feel free to pause the video and use.
I said It's very easy if you've read if you had read this part of the course where you have understood
how it does when the problem works, then you can easily solve it.
So let's discuss this problem in more detail.
So these are the indexes and these are the values.
Instead of values, read nums.
Well, so.
Variety.
I'll make a state in both state and I'll simply say Idbi comma.
If you make a to restated i committee.
Right.
Right now I'm taking it to restate.
But we will see how to reduce it.
Like reduce this to the state, to our needs to it will represent.
What's the maximum amount of money?
Money you can Rob.
From.
Let's see.
The houses are houses.
I do.
Being basically the subject of debate will represent if I have these many houses starting from the end
of the max amount of money you can draw up.
If if j zero then.
But what I will say is that we will simply say that the houses.
Robbed.
It means the eight houses robbed.
And if just one.
Okay.
Let's say for the related, the house is not robbed.
Yeah.
As I said, I'll make it slightly confusing, but this is important.
It will come in handy later.
House is robbed, so there's a very simple, easy solution.
But I don't want to go into that.
We will come to that later.
And here we can see that this is deep, easy.
Houses are from eye to end.
Very simple.
So for any house, deep zero represents.
What's the best answer?
If.
I'm not robbing the current house.
These are the total houses.
Tell me, what's the best answer?
Second is.
If I am robbing, they got to know that is DBA.
Even for DBA, when will tell me what's the best answer if I'm robbing the current state?
What will be the final answer?
Basically the final answer will be nothing but max off of BP.
Zero zero.
Commanded b018 that means Rob defy styles are doing Robert tell me what's the best answer for all the
Oasis eight So I hope you understood the deep state here, but that these deep states mean I0 even.
Now let's try to make some.
Nations.
Okay.
So think about it.
That's him not robbing the current house.
Hey, if I'm not robbing the government house, that means I can rob the next house.
So, basically, let me see.
Yeah.
So let's see.
These many houses they wanted to rob.
And currently I'm here and I'm saying I'm not robbing the current house.
Tell me, what's the best answer for the rest of the house is what are the rest of the houses?
It starts from index next index basically rate.
So I can simply say that I'm not only corinthos, then the answer will be nothing but.
You can either rob the next house or you can not rob the next house.
So in this case, what I can say is, once again, we the max off and then you rob the next house,
which is DP zero.
Sorry DP I +10 which is if you don't robbed in Texas and the next one is BPI plus one comma one --.
You robbed the next jobs.
I hope this is very clear to them not having to go.
And you can rob the next house.
You can not rob next year.
Depends on you.
Right?
Whether not robbing the next house gives you a better solution or robbing the next rose gives you a
better solution.
Eric For example, let's say this is the case 1 to 10 and two, right?
So in this case.
What's happening is it's not necessary to rob the next house and get the best, best answer.
I can not Robert and still obtain the state.
Correct.
So let's go to the next third, which is DP, i.e. comma one, which means if I'm robbing the current
house, what's my best answer?
So if I'm robbing the current house.
Didn't tell me while I robbed the next house.
No.
Right.
I cannot rob the next house.
So my answer is nothing but DPA +10.
That means.
Now tell me.
That was the best answer for the other houses.
If I don't rob the next house so I'm robbing the current house.
I will also include number eight because that cash, I'm digging it.
So these are the basic recursive relations that we have formed.
And this is a working solution.
If you want to try it, you can call it and submitted.
And finally, you just need to return max of DP zero comma.
Correct.
And a deep zero comma, one that Europe defers to all.
So you don't draw it.
What's the best answer?
But here, I just want you to realize one more thing that this is a 2D dynamic programming solution,
because here we have two states, either Robert or you don't Robert.
But then this can be converted to a 1D writing programming solution.
Let's see how far deep by even what I have is I have DBA +10.
Right?
So let me just replace I plus one in this equation eight.
So what will be the DBA +10.
It will be nothing but.
Max off.
BP.
I blessed to because I'm replacing your day.
I bless one former BP.
I blessed two former.
One.
Correct.
Well, I've done nothing, but I just replaced eBay plus one in the first equation just to find out
the value of DPA plus one.
So here I hear you.
You all concede that.
Yeah.
This is the greater good in that regard.
Look, I can also say that DPA is equal to Dubai.
I is also equal to this Max of BP.
I plus two, comma, zero, comma deep plus Tacoma one.
Correct.
And now let's just for a moment, let's just forget this.
That can exist.
And let's say we have the first equation, which is BPI zero and the second decreasing, and those are
deep even.
But again, this is also working solution, right?
But now let's see.
Instead of saying that whether I selected, then tell me the answer and if I don't selected, then tell
me the answer.
What we can say is.
Tell me the answer if I.
And they're selected or I don't selected eight So just tell me what is the maximum money that is stashed
if I selected or if I don't selected?
So right now what we can see is let's make deep eye and let's not include zero one and let's say that
DPA is nothing but is it is equals to max of epi i.e. zero.
Bomber, my DP, Ivan.
Okay, so let's take a third step.
And this is a windy state, which is not doing DPA, and it will represent the max of, as I take it,
or I don't.
Tell me, what's the best answer I know if I'm taking it or if I'm not taking it, tell me what's the
best answer?
This is what DP.
I will represent Nate.
So here you can see that.
What is this?
This is nothing but liberalism combined rate this whole max value.
It is deep, blissful, right?
And this whole max values BPI bliss to addict.
So what I will simply say is I simply say that BPI is nothing but.
Max off.
Because here you can see that.
Okay, let me write it completely.
Only then.
Yeah.
Here.
You can see that DPA is nothing but marks of DPA zero and DPA one.
And what is max of DPA zero?
Max of DPA zero is nothing.
But yeah, I'm just replacing it here.
The maximum DPA zero is nothing with this value, which is the p i plus one.
API +18.
And what is the max of Diprivan?
It is nothing but this second value that we saw made, which is Ippy.
I bless.
You know, and of course we always have num site if I'm selecting the current.
House.
If I am robbing the current house, I will always have no guns.
I don't know how to do this number.
So I replaced these equations.
I just forgot to add num num someone over there.
And it will be able to place numbers, I think.
But this is another working dynamic programming violation and now it is a day solution.
That means the states are not good states.
They did this only one state and that state where it varies over the index.
This is deep what it is.
If the debate is represents, tell me whatever is the best answer.
If I.
Robert or if I don't Robert.
Just considering what the.
Possibilities.
So if I'm not rubbing the current on.
So tell me, what's the.
Yeah.
So now we can, you know, derive this relation.
If I'm not robbing it.
If I'm not robbing the current house, tell me what's the best on certified.
Rob.
Rob the next episode, if I don't rob the next house, which is development one, and if I'm robbing
the current house, which is taking them away, I would simply say that I'm robbing to get a dose.
Now tell me, what's the best answer if I rob the next door, next house, or if I don't rob the next
door next host hey so whatever is the maximum of to I'll just included in the debate so.
I hope it was not very confusing.
I just wanted you all to understand that any lake, not any and not every thumb to the deep relations
can be derived into a one day deep relations.
And you can optimize a little bit space there.
And by just, you know, by just doing some replacements that we used to do in mathematics, like by
using one or replacing one by two and all those things.
I'm not calling this.
I want you all to call it.
You can call it only it's very easy to score it and memorize it.
You you can use the tabular approach, I don't think it's not even two lines worth of solution in this
way.
These are the two recursive relations.
You can use any one of them.
You can use this one.
Also, if you're interested in this, you can use this also.
Okay.
So you see in the next part, everyone.